feat: Add background explanation on object storage (#145)
citynetwork/docs: docs/background/object-storage.md

# Object storage in {{brand}}

Object storage in {{brand}} is implemented via the [Ceph Object Gateway](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/index.html), also known as `radosgw` (commonly pronounced "[rados](https://ceph.io/assets/pdfs/weil-rados-pdsw07.pdf) gateway").

This facility exposes access to objects via two RESTful APIs: the [Amazon S3 API](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/APIRest.html), and the [OpenStack Swift API](https://docs.openstack.org/api-ref/object-store/).
It is, however, important to understand that radosgw shares no code with Amazon S3, nor with OpenStack Swift.

> As such, object storage in {{brand}} is not expected to behave *exactly* as Amazon S3 or OpenStack Swift, although it tracks their behavior very closely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As such, object storage in {{brand}} is not expected to behave *exactly* as Amazon S3 or OpenStack Swift, although it tracks their behavior *very* closely.
```

Author: I don't think the additional emphasis is necessary here.

The Ceph upstream documentation lists API deviations from the respective reference implementations, for both the [S3](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/s3/) and the [Swift](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/swift/) API.
Our [reference section](../reference/index.md) lists additional [limitations](../reference/limitations/object-storage.md) specific to {{brand}}.

## Object storage integration with OpenStack authentication

> In {{brand}}, the OpenStack `object‑store` service endpoints point not to native OpenStack Swift proxy servers, but to radosgw endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {{brand}}, the OpenStack `object‑store` service endpoints point to radosgw endpoints, and **not** to native OpenStack Swift proxy servers.
```

Author: Nope, the word order here is deliberate, I want to have "radosgw endpoints" at the end of the sentence where the natural emphasis is.

This is to say that radosgw acts as a "drop-in" replacement for OpenStack Swift.

As such, it is fully integrated with OpenStack's authentication facility, OpenStack Keystone.

> This means that once you have configured the [OpenStack CLI](../howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli.md) correctly, you are able to interact with the `object‑store` endpoint as with any other OpenStack service, using the Swift API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that once you have configured the [OpenStack CLI](../howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli.md) correctly, you can interact with the `object‑store` endpoint as with any other OpenStack service, using the Swift API.
```

Author: Yup.

> The S3 API, however, does not natively "know" about OpenStack authentication.

Reviewer: OK, this is more of a personal preference: When writing something metaphorical, I tend to omit double quotes around words or sentences. In that particular case, by skipping the double quotes around "know" (oops), I would say to the reader something along the lines of "I know you know the S3 API cannot know anything, for it is **not** sentient".

Author: I see your point, but I would still prefer to leave the scare quotes in. :)

The radosgw endpoints in {{brand}} *still* authenticate via Keystone, albeit taking a little detour:
you must first [create AWS-style credentials](../howto/object-storage/s3/credentials.md) and configure your S3 client with them, which it can then use to make properly authenticated S3 API calls.

## Multi-tenancy

OpenStack Swift has the concept of multi-tenancy built-in.
Thus, if you use the Swift API with credentials for an [OpenStack user](../howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli.md) that authenticates against a specific {{brand}} *region* and uses a specific *project*, it can only interact with objects stored in containers belonging to that project by default.

In {{brand}}, you also get multi-tenancy for S3 objects, even though this concept is not intrinsic to S3 itself.

> Here, again, a small conceptual detour applies: when you [create AWS-style credentials](../howto/object-storage/s3/credentials.md), then those are linked to a specific OpenStack user, region, and project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, again, a slight conceptual detour applies: when you [create AWS-style credentials](../howto/object-storage/s3/credentials.md), then those are linked to a specific OpenStack user, region, and project.
```

Author: Yes.

> Here, again, a small conceptual detour applies: when you [create AWS-style credentials](../howto/object-storage/s3/credentials.md), then those are linked to a specific OpenStack user, region, and project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, again, a slight conceptual detour happens: when you [create AWS-style credentials](../howto/object-storage/s3/credentials.md), then those are linked to a specific OpenStack user, region, and project.
```

Author: No, I think "applies" is better here.

> When you subsequently use those credentials for S3 interactions, any buckets and objects thus created belong to the project that the credentials are linked to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you subsequently use those credentials for S3 interactions, any buckets and objects thus created belong to the project to which the credentials are linked.
```

Author: Good suggestion.

## Object identity in {{brand}}

> Regardless of whether you access a specific object via the Swift API or the S3 API, *it is the same object.*

Author: OK.

> This also includes that the object's *container* (accessed via the Swift API) is identical to its containing *bucket* (accessed via the S3 API).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also means that the object's *container* (accessed via the Swift API) is identical to its containing *bucket* (accessed via the S3 API).
```

Author: Yes, good point.

Thus, if you

* [enable the OpenStack CLI](../howto/getting-started/enable-openstack-cli.md) with a certain set of user credentials;
* use those credentials to [create a private container](../howto/object-storage/swift/private-container.md) named `test` and an object named `my‑object`, using the Swift API;
* use the same OpenStack credentials to [create AWS-style credentials](../howto/object-storage/s3/credentials.md);
* then use those AWS-style credentials to list your buckets and objects, using the S3 API,

you will find an S3 bucket named `test`, containing an object named `my‑object`.

## Permission and feature conflicts

> The fact that objects are identical when accessed via Swift and S3 also entails that bucket and object permissions, set via one API, also apply to object access using the other API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fact that objects are identical when accessed via Swift and S3, entails that bucket and object permissions, set via one API, also apply to object access using the other API.
```

Author: No, I think "also" is better than the comma here.

For example, if you [make a container public](../howto/object-storage/swift/public-container.md) via the Swift API, it also becomes a [public bucket](../howto/object-storage/s3/public-bucket.md) that is accessible via an S3 API path.

> You cannot make a container public via the Swift API, whilst retaining mandatory private (authenticated) access via the S3 API.

Author: I'll rephrase this slightly differently.

Object storage in {{brand}} also does *not* allow you to set competing permissions or features on containers/buckets, based on the API used to access them.
For example, it is not possible to create [a Swift container that enables versioning](../howto/object-storage/swift/versioning.md), while simultaneously disabling [bucket versioning](../howto/object-storage/s3/versioning/) to the corresponding S3 bucket.

Sometimes, this creates unavoidable conflicts if a specific feature is only available in one of the supported APIs.

> For example, suppose you enable [object lock](../howto/object-storage/s3/object-lock.md) on an S3 bucket. In that case, you cannot modify any lock retention policies from the Swift API because it simply has no corresponding feature.

Author: I opted for describing a different and simpler feature (bucket policies) instead of object lock here.

> For example, if you enable [object lock](../howto/object-storage/s3/object-lock.md) on an S3 bucket, you cannot modify any lock retention policies from the Swift API, because it simply has no corresponding feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, suppose you enable [object lock](../howto/object-storage/s3/object-lock.md) on an S3 bucket. In that case, you cannot modify any lock retention policies from the Swift API because it simply has no corresponding feature.
```
